as a clinician you can't tell a patient
you know I'm sorry I'm not I'm not sure
how to treat your breast cancer Mrs
Smith um come back to me in 5 years when
I figured out a little bit more about
the
genome right Mrs Smith needs or Mrs
Jones needs their treatment now um so
you don't have that luxury and on but as
a scientist you you you have to tell
yourself that that the kinds of
strategies that you're using currently
have got to be primitive I mean
certainly were primitive at the time
that we were using many of these
chemotherapies for many diseases for
many forms of cancer not for testicular
cancer where chemotherapy is remarkably
effective but for for lung cancer for
instance where chemotherapy is not that
effective so um so that tension is very
acutely felt in the book um that said
how do we know that that the that the
that the therapies of today will not
become out outed tomorrow I hope they
become actually out moded tomorrow I
frankly hope that you know I hope that
we that in a decade from now we we look
back and and at at this at this moment
in oncology and we find it laughable in
the same sense we find purging laughable
um or or find bleeding laughable um I
hope that happens um and um and that's
what that's what makes science or
medicine very Dynamic um the knowledge
of yesterday I can tell you with some I
can tell you with a great degree of
certainty that CML chronic myogenous
leukemia was a disease actually multiple
Myoma um breast cancer just to give you
three cancers the the paradigms that I
learned to treat as a young as a young
fellow the paradigms that I learned to
treat these diseases have changed so
dramatically that I I had to barely I
had to relearn as an attending I had to
relearn everything about treating all
the these three cancers in the span of
my training program um and so that's a
reminder that you know things are
changing really
rapidly